modeljs
=======

A simple javaScript library for creating a Model part of a MVC application from JSON.

Features
--------------------
  - Simple easy to use and intuitive library.
  - No dependencies.
  - Can save/load Model to/from JSON with/without model meta data.
  - Can attach custom meta-data to properties that can be persisted with model.
  - Supports models defined by a remote resource with the ability to periodically refresh.
  - remote model has option to use JSONP in the event of CORS issues.
  - Can register on change events with any single property or group of properties.
  - Model change events bubble up.
  - Can define and trigger custom events.
  - Can suppress change event notification.
  - Can batch actions into a transaction.
  - Transaction callbacks can be easily optimized.
  - Can tie validation methods to models and properties.
  - Can flag any property value to not be persisted to JSON.
  - Can retrieve FormattedValues using a custom defined Formatter.
  - Can enable logging to flag incorrect uses of api to the console.
  - Native browser Support for all browsers that support ECMA5 including and tested on IE9, Firefox 4+, Safari 5.1.4+, Chrome 7+, Opera 12+ without a shim library.
  - Works on non-ECMA5 browser with use of a shim library. Specifically tested on IE8 with es5-shim.
  - Compatible with the CommonJS module format and is usable as a Node module.
  - Compatible with AMD module loaders like requirejs.


Browser Support
---------------
modeljs works on all browsers that support ECMAScript 5th Edition (December 2009, http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-262.pdf).  It has been manually tested on IE9, Firefox 14+, Safari 5.1.4 and Chrome 21+. To see if it work on a specify browser version of your choice, run the unit tests(test/ModelTest.html). To support older non ECMA5 browsers using a shim library like [es5-shim](https://github.com/kriskowal/es5-shim). Modeljs has been successfully tested on IE8 with the es5-shim library.

Getting Started
------------------
Clone the repo, `git clone git://github.com/dgeorges/modeljs.git`, or [download the latest release](https://github.com/dgeorges/modeljs/zipball/master)

To use modeljs in your application copy src/model.js to an appropriate location and include it in your HTML like so:

    <script type="text/javascript" src="/path/to/model.js"></script>

If your doing server side development in Node, you can import it like so:

    var Model = require("/path/to/model.js");
Or using npm install

    npm install modeljs
    var Model = require("modeljs");


Examples
------------------
A couple of example pages have been created to show how to use modeljs. They can be found in the /test/example folder
 - **New** sandbox enviornment on jsFiddle [here](http://jsfiddle.net/gh/get/jQuery/1.8.2/dgeorges/modeljs/tree/master/test/example/jsFiddleDemo/).
 - tableWidget.js Shows how a table widget can be created with model js.
 - example.html Shows how to integrate the table widget on your page and is followed by a tutorial of the modeljs api.
 - knockoutExample.html Shows how easy it is to build a binding library on top of modeljs that behaves like the popular knockoutjs library. The example is almost identical to the knockoutjs introduction example.

Documentation
------------------
Documentation is generated by YUIdoc and can be viewed by cloning the repo or downloading the source and viewing **doc/index.html**.
For more information visit modeljs's [wiki](https://github.com/dgeorges/modeljs/wiki)


###Project Status: Stable - v2.1.1 Released (Dec 1st 2012).
